There are multiple ways to design a scalable Apache Airflow architecture with CeleryExecutor, RabbitMQ, and Redis on AWS. Here is one proposal:

Apache Airflow Web Server and Scheduler: Deploy the Airflow web server and scheduler on an Amazon EC2 instance. This server will host the Airflow UI and coordinate the execution of tasks.

Amazon RDS: Use Amazon RDS for the Airflow metadata database. Amazon RDS automatically patches the database software and backs up your database, storing the backups for a user-defined retention period. It also supports automated scaling for read capacity.

Amazon ElastiCache for Redis: Use Amazon ElastiCache for Redis as the Celery backend. This will allow your tasks to communicate with each other and store transient states.

Amazon MQ for RabbitMQ: Use Amazon MQ for RabbitMQ as the message broker. It helps to decouple your microservices, distributed systems, and serverless applications.

Amazon ECS or EKS: Use Amazon Elastic Container Service (ECS) or Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS) for running and managing your Airflow workers. These managed services make it easy to run, stop, and manage Docker containers on a cluster of Amazon EC2 instances.

Amazon Auto Scaling: Use Amazon Auto Scaling to manage the number of your Airflow workers (running on ECS or EKS). By monitoring your applications' workload, it can add more worker instances when the demand is high, and reduce the number of instances when demand is low.

Amazon CloudWatch: Use Amazon CloudWatch to monitor your entire Airflow environment. You can create dashboards, set alarms, and automate actions based on predefined thresholds.

AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM): Use IAM roles and policies for managing access to your AWS resources.

This architecture allows for high availability and scalability. With Amazon MQ, ECS or EKS, and Auto Scaling, your Airflow workers will be able to scale well and handle variable workloads efficiently. In case of high loads or increased task demands, additional workers can be spun up to maintain system performance.

Please note that this architecture can be adjusted based on the specifics of your use case, your budget, and the complexity of your workflows. AWS also offers other services that could be used instead of the ones mentioned here, such as using AWS Fargate for serverless container execution or Amazon MSK as a fully managed Apache Kafka service.
